

Visual appearance
The sun's shadows become too long, maybe at a certain point of evening; let's hide the sun as if it were hiding behind a tall mountain. But there is no mountain. so we not gonna get very long shadows; it will be the evening and morning thresholds. 

Game Look 
Awning adding on a selling point; if selling points are moved inside the building, the Awning same coloring is displayed above the Door, marking that this building contains that type of salesman.
It could be green stripes for vegetables and food. So when marked spot wooden are sitting outside it has its own identity color, and when it is put inside under the roof. the room that leads to this market spot also automatically inherit thais property of a shop market ( we need t oamke s system when the accessories inside a building are defining a property of a building; it could be a hair salon or coffeeshop or vegetables, all those has unique identification and Awning one of it)

Game screens.
Let's separate zooms; we already have "World view" (or "global view," another name to reference it; I've noticed I'm not consistent with a glossary) with min-zoom=1 and max-zoom=2
we will have sorta "building view" (a "room view", "flat view", "inner view") with max-zoom=0.5 roughly, so the player can set up all the elements that go inside the building
Visual appearance: for an Inner of a "building view", I want to add good rays beaming through the window or other openings in the walls, depending on daylight.
it will still be isometric, but some of the walls that in front of us would be transparent and reveal all that is contained inside a building) and we can simulate the enclosure's environment separately, but suppose the factors inside, like the number of beds and toilets, on a global view; there is no exact simulation of a "building view" 
I've been thinking that we can go even on another level deeper, it should remain a fractal each time we go inside a single unit cube on tcurrent level , we can go deeper finding out the 2x2x2 grid inside . with a yet even-smaller size of a greed  currently I've figure out only 2 of this type of levels,
World, Buildings inner, Utilities inner
When we look inside a utility, the AC unit, we can sorta get inside and see the inner component with heat exchange, with electricity came in and a pump, so internally the "Utility structure," witch is the size of a room and takes roughly an 1 of a sub-square inside a single standard world view cube,  will execute some "SERVICE" or "GOODS" 
and this "Utility structure"  inner gut can be modified in order to make it Mark 2 and speed the output, its needed to be separated to calculate simulation outside the building like AC unit that can make cold one room , and then another room added which means the AC unit are not enough power to col down both rooms, so we need two of the AC unit, or get inside to this unit and change the layout of inner component to make it double the efficiency, (but I haven't figure-out what would it be, and how many of this "Utility structure" we need out of the box for the player to fulfil their needs, om doing this in purpose to make it re-assemble when we sorta get a new technology , it can be smaller footprint so we can put more stuff inside the building  view with c is limited resource to put  "Utility structure" on a floor, or hang  "Utility structure"on a wall, eventually we run out of teh space, and thats where core mechanics kicks in, - tis like playing in Tetris reorganising it, and playing with the blocks themself miniaturising them over time exploring new technologies. and stuffing more into one "Utility structure" and providing more Utility structure on a square. And another analogy: a "backpack manager",

World Generation Bug: 
it seems to be at the first time when we are loading the surrounding area; it looks good when we have trees settled inside some sort of forest. The further I go through the world, it starts not looking convincing. It's sort of generated differently from where it was in the start of the game and when it's revealed through the fog of war. Let's make it consistent and make trees sitting near trees and palms sit near palms, making some forests. Same applies to limestone patches here and there. It shouldn't happen so often, but the patches themselves need to be bigger, like 16 blocks in one patch. With different random shapes, but try to avoid overhang boulders. That has no support from stones underneath it, so stones need to naturally stick out of the ground, not hang  in the air. 

Logical bug. I've noticed that when a citizen makes a "plank" out of the "log": the citizen doesn't bring the resulting "plank" back to the stockpile. the "plank" just teleports into the pile somehow. That's not the correct way of "carrying a physical-world thing" from one place A to another place B. The basic format is:
The citizen takes a "log". citizen brings it to the "sawmill" building, "applying force" for some time duration.
3In the citizen's hand, the "log" disappears, and a "plank" appears. we need to be careful with duping we should tread a resource gathered with a unique UDID identification that can either be in citizens hand on a flor on a "pile"(warehouse) inside some build structure or construction site,  thats probably all the scenarios that "Log" could be in, we will destroy log UDID and convert it to a new "Plank" UDID when the workforce applied I na sawmill by Citizen (for later maybe it will be automated so no Citizen required to "apply force" action take that in mind, and duration of "applied forces" also can varying, currently most of the time its a set to a 3 second)

Visual bug: this is the way how log icons are shown in the whole game. It's currently using some pixel art. We don't need that. We can use an actual log 3D object model when it's, for example, lying in the pile. Same type of looking elements. I don't want everything to be a pixel graphic except certain icons. I wanna make a persistent understanding of how the user's eye reads elements to show them that the "log" in the game-physical world itself, not its prepresentation in a 2d plane as icon, we can make a sorta system that make a screenshot ofa n objrct in a game, so next time while developing, we will add a new 3d building in a game it will simply beoing screenshotted in a standard view zoom 2x on (so it can be come smaller) a flat plane terrain witha sand I na background.  "log" on the user interface will be shown as the same thing from a game-engine physics world. Please replace the way the icon number of a storage is displaying the log, the way the construction site is displaying the log, and every other place where it's used.
or maybe instead of actual PNG file to dipslay what if we not display a fully 3d object in a menu, ofcouse it will bea dummy object in a UI that has nothing to do with game-engine -physics-world, I want my game to be non cheat-code breakable, by simply setting number in a RAM of how many logs palyer has, thats not a thing this number only a calculation of available "Object_material" in certain area distance from a "piles"(warehouse storage type of buildings), and the same "Object_material" that sits inside the  "pile"(warehouse storage type of buildings) and not count the same"Object_material" that already inside a complete building sctrucutre, and not even on Construction site, because that material already obtained by construction site,

Game logic. It should play to itself so that when there is no player input for a while, or the player is just observing the Citizen without a task, it needs to wander around and then go to the city center, maybe if it exists, and do some labor on its own. For example:
- sorting
- carrying 
- finding some resources lying on the floor around to find the task for itself
I'm not sure what it should be, but this mechanic is needed. We can add some to-dos for later.

The re-directional instruction to a citizen when the Citizen is carrying something and I deliberately send that citizen to go into a "pile" (or "warehouse"): the new task needs to emerge: deliver this resource to the storage building, 
Carried by citizen resource logic. When the citizen is carrying the log from a chopped tree and is currently in the working condition of a lumberjack, and the player send this lumberjack ("tree cutter") with a Log in hand to a construction site, it means this construction site needs to be built, and the person will be redirected to go and construct a building. in case building lack of a resource that carrying currently citizen example "Support 1/4" building still need a 3logs in it, and player can send a delivery of 3 logs into that building and when the log is delivered to a construction-site the Citizen can immediately start Building that building because new resources delivered and Labour of 3 second can be applied to the construction site, but if Citizen carrying berries, and send to construct a building and that building has "Support 3/4" on e log remaining the Citizen and if on a walking distance pile has a Log, than this citizen n will confirm with s speech bubble that citizen will go to build a building "Support 3/4" the citizen need a "log" for him to carry, so Citizen will bring with in a "Berries" that initially were carried to the pile (or warehouse) than citizen will take a log, and carry that log to construction site and will continue construction cycle, and third case 
when citizen carrying something that to a pile that does not contain any "log', than this citizen will drop what he carting right now and will be redirected to "find" nearby the log either laying around or in a "pile", and will leave berries on a ground (surface), the left resource on a ground does not require any of the Labour work to collect it, its immediately picked up,
We need to configure this type of logic later on in a game because there could be different scenarios: what would be the best action to perform. for example if construction site has delivered logs, but the 3 seconds of a labour not applied, and citizen walking by so player want to finish the constructor with current citizen walking by, the citizen should not GO to the pile and bring not needed log, the citizen immediately drop everything carries, and then go to construction site worker, continuing construction in a loop, and probably the player after making a citizen a construction worked briefly will ask to take the berry pick up from a floor where it was dropped so citizen will continued delivery of a berries, and then will stop, (because citizen was not assigned to be gatherer, citizen last time were assigned to work "delivery")  
2. Delivery & Storage Bug Fixes
Storage Cascade Bug Fix
Problem: Citizens stall/freeze when their primary target pile fills up.
Specification: When a citizen arrives at a full pile, trigger a re-pathing check:
Search for the nearest alternative storage/warehouse that accepts the carried item and has space.
If found, re-route the citizen.
If no valid storage exists, transition the citizen to a DropOnGround state or Idle / Blocked state.
Delivery Interaction & Visual Polish
Labor Timer without UI Bar: Delivering resources to a storage pile takes 1.0 second of labor, but the progress bar UI overhead is hidden to prevent visual clutter.
Manual Storage Redirect: If the player manually orders a citizen who is carrying a resource directly to a storage site, immediately cancel their current task and assign the higher-priority task: Deliver Carried Item to Target Storage.
Detailed Case RulesCase 1 (Matches Required Material):Condition: Citizen carries a Log; Construction Site needs Logs (e.g., 1/4).Action: Citizen walks directly to site -> Deposits Log (Site becomes 2/4) -> Automatically begins applying construction labor (3 seconds per step).Case 2 (Mismatched Material, Target Material Stored):Condition: Citizen carries Berries; Construction Site needs Logs (1/4); Logs exist in nearby storage.Action: Show speech bubble feedback -> Citizen carries Berries to Storage -> Drops Berries -> Picks up Log from Storage -> Delivers Log to Construction Site -> Performs construction labor.Case 3 (Mismatched Material, Target Material Loose/Not in Storage):Condition: Citizen carries Berries; Construction Site needs Logs; Storage has no Logs (but loose Logs exist on the map).Action: Citizen drops Berries on the ground immediately (0 labor required to drop or pick up loose ground items) -> Walks to nearby loose Log -> Picks up Log -> Delivers to site & constructs.Case 4 (Materials Fully Delivered, Only Labor Needed):Condition: Site materials are satisfied (e.g., Logs 4/4), but construction labor is pending.Action: Citizen drops carried items on the ground instantly -> Proceeds directly to construction site -> Performs construction labor loop until build complete.

Visual change simple
for the trunks of the living trees and palms, and the limestones vertically stick out of the ground. We need to have two colors of those vertical lines, so if it's a semi-cylindrical shape or even a cube shape, we have one face highlighted with sun and another face sitting in the shadow of the sun, not being directly highlighted with sunlight beams. 

Visual fix simple
World generation "limestone" looks like a separate (smaller than the actual world size unit cube) rectangular shape taken out of the ground. It should be a solid block of material like we have in our tool 'Landscape editing mode'.

Visual fix simple
In logic currently the height of our Citizen is much taller than the standard height of the world unit as far as I understand it. Terraforming tool: our basic road unit is those cubes that stick out of the ground or are being cut off from the ground. Considering that our tree is only one and a half the size of a human being, which is not quite true. Let's reduce the height of our Citizen to one unit block instead of two unit blocks' height. I probably meant to say the Citizen height is two sub-squares. It's 1/8 + 1/8 the size of a standard-world-block. 

Game Visual middle
 The movement of our Citizen junkies still doesn't look good. Let's make it also be exportable to the usual 3D modeling tools like Blender so I can modify those 3D objects and 3D animation on my own. You need to keep the layer names correct, like a layer called head or layer called torso, and a layer called leg. Eventually, I want the citizen to look like it was done with the DOOM technique, when it's always facing the user camera and looks like it's a 2D spline but it won't be like that in reality. It will be 3D animation calculated automatically, how it's called, because I don't want to deal with sprites for the different angles. It's not possible to make them; it will be too many sprites to handle, so I want the 3D engine to solve it for me, but it will be stylised as if it's always facing the user camera. It will be possible to rotate it later when, for example, the Citizen is static and sleeping so we will see his torso from certain angles. 

Visual fix simple
The appearance changes the way we select an object. The way we select the one world standard size cube is fine with one white-rectangule at top surface Faces and one white-rectangule in bottom surface Faces.  Let's change that into an actual cell shading calculation. When I select a cube in the world, it looks like I am looking into a six-corner shape. When I select a tree, it will outline the whole tree, exactly showing how it sticks out from the other trees. The same applies to other objects, such as a cactus or even a log lying on the floor. It will be applicable to every object in the game world to have cell shading around the object. On select, on hover mode. It is also applicable to the citizens themselves, so its hover is wrapped around their body, ignoring the blankets or other extra details. On hover, we see exactly which citizen we are going to select right now, and on click, if the custom cursor is moved out from that citizen, only the circle selection remains visible, showing that fact that this Citizen was selected. 

Game logic. 
Switching between different modes of a game: let's change to "building mode", "landscape mode", and "tree greenery mode". When I'm in any of these modes and have not selected something to build (meaning I can select with my cursor on something on the road), when I drag it and one of the citizens is caught, it means the player no longer wants to be in that mode. The game should switch it, turn any mode off, and select exactly the citizen captured. 


Visual appearance: let's change how the walkable path line displays; currently, the line itself is shown exactly from the Citizen center point. of the circle selection for the citizen selection. Let's move that Line to start only at the edge of the circle selection so it does not start exactly in the centre of a circle but on the edge of the circle. The line itself extends the circle in a certain direction and finishes it with a dot. 
 

Game logic, RTS, so let's make our hotkeys apply. 
 Control Groups Work: Create Group: Press Ctrl + Number (saves current units to that key). Add to Group: Press Shift + Number (adds new units to that key). Find Group: Press Number once (jumps camera to the group) or double-press it (centres screen on the group).
Numbers available  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0. Number keys are selected no matter what, even if the player is in building mode. Immediately turn off this building mode and switch to citizen selection.

Change how greenery mode works to change some grass and greenery. Currently, when I select a bush, I can click the left mouse button, and it will immediately jump there. That's not how I want it. It's cool to have, but in some sort of dev mode or God mode of the game, we don't need it right now. In the greenery mode, we will. Let's make a certain construction site, like I want to construct a bush in a certain area, or I want to construct a tree in a certain area. When a tree is planted, it's only visible as a small sapling sticking out of the ground with only one leaf sticking out. It will need to be distinctly and visibly different from the way the other plants look. Also, the player will be able to plant cacti and plant bushes. They will all look different in the growing mode. Also, I forgot, of course, the palm tree. And in that mode, we will have the same dig-out: basically, remove the tree, and we will have a tool to move the tree. When we select a bush, like right now, we will have the option to move it somewhere, and it will require labor to carve the bush out of the ground. It will take three seconds of labor force. Then, in another place where it's placed, with a #gray, semi-transparent 50% color, as if it's looking like a construction site, but it doesn't have it on the four corners; this stick will look different. Just soil will be sort of prepared automatically for replanting, so the user can see and differentiate which is a building construction site and which is a greenery construction site. So the logic should be identical, and we only differentiate between buildings and greenery in a different submenu to make it easier for the Player to grasp it. 

Visual, middle
on a sand I've already let's add a footsteps effect, and they will commutative effect of them will make aw itch more often taken by citizens need to have a ability to bake ito not into a  have too many different objects stored in a game, simply It can be brush painting o na surface, and we will add surface texture sorta. to the game, lets think indirection, also it need to be worked with pathfinding, i've noticed different citizen can find co different route that look natural and all ,  but it make an common routes trodden paths from a citizen made collectively using same path over and objective because of point of interests

Visual, middle (not ready to implement, cuz we don't have snow particles falling down, snow drying, and even "Hard difficulty" with snowy area to play at)
On snow lets add a seamless trail effect by a citizen going through it; it will be more visible than single steps and not disappear so fast as trail in water.

_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Building new
a "solar panel" size one standard unit size; it is also angled the same angle as a roof does, so it is possible to put it over the roofs. Also able to put it on a surface, but it will have a support structure beneath it. 
They are stackable and make a seamless, almost a pattern when two or more are merged together.

Building new
The "bamboo scaffolding" like in Hong Kong while they build concrete buildings. (Not fully decided how to make it)
